[Music]
so you've just taken your seat on board
your airliner and your palms are sweaty
your heart is racing and you just can't
shake your anxiety well that's okay a
ton of people are nervous Flyers
you'll probably be paying extra close
attention to every sensation and sound
during your flight stay with me
there are lots of sounds that are
completely normal on an airplane first
let's start with a little countdown to
takeoff the first sound you'll probably
hear will be two dings about 20 minutes
before you take off you'll hear -
high-pitched dings in a row over the
intercom system this only means that one
crew member wants to talk to another
just to get into preparation mode for
the flight this is your chance to sit
back make sure you're buckled in and try
to relax if you think about it these
dings are a good thing they mean that
the intercom system is working and that
there's functional communication between
crew members 15 minutes before your
plane takes off you'll hear a single
ding this is a call from the cockpit to
the flight attendants to pick up the
phone 15 minutes before takeoff is
pretty much the pilots last opportunity
to do anything he needs to before he
gets your plane in the air like going to
the bathroom grabbing some coffee or
getting a snack the single ding is like
his request to the flight attendants to
grab him that coffee or snack or letting
them know that he's stepping out of the
cockpit for a minute you want your pilot
to be comfortable right 10 minutes
before takeoff you'll hear a soft pound
from under the plane and a drill like
Sam this is just the crew closing and
securing the cargo hole when you land
you want all the fun stuff you pack to
be there too right the engines are now
revving up - if the crew didn't close
the cargo hole you might see your PJs or
swim trunks flowing away just kidding
but you know there can't be doors
hanging open while you're in the air now
you're ready to take off the flight
attendants will explain the safety
measures and by the way the safety
speech is required on every flight
attendant will explain that these safety
measures are in place for very rare
emergencies and then it's time to take
off don't panic
the plane will begin to move toward the
runway it'll pick up speed once it's on
the runway so that it can achieve enough
lift to get into the air it'll sound
like it's windy but this is just the
sound of the plane's wings and engines
slicing through the air liftoff is
pretty cool to watch if you have a
window seat but if it makes you nervous
just sit back and close your eyes until
you're in the air
liftoff love it or hate it there's
nothing quite like feeling your plane
leave the ground you'll hear the sound
of the plane's wheels going back up into
its belly
you'll hear the sounds of engines
working and mechanical things happening
and it may be a little overwhelming and
very loud but these noises are
completely normal
remember that your plane is an amazing
and complex piece of machinery as you're
climbing into the air you might feel the
sensation of your ears wanting to pop
this is normal too it's just due to the
change in air pressure for a protip try
chewing gum or yawning during the
liftoff to relieve those ears ok so you
made it into the air and everything is
just fine what other sounds might you
hear 5 minutes after takeoff to loud
beeps will go off this is the pilot
telling the flight attendants that the
plane has reached a certain altitude
it's just to keep the crew informed of
the planes progress these beeps are a
good thing because it means that the
airplane is past the point where those
rare safety issues are most likely to
occur which is while the plane is
climbing drink and snack cart whoo my
favourite roughly five minutes before
the flight attendants roll the drink and
snack cart through the aisles one loud
ding will sound to let you know that
it's coming in case you were catching
some Z's are watching a movie now is
your opportunity to grab a soda or water
and most cards also offer a small snack
like pretzels or nuts creaks rattles and
whooshes these are all completely normal
sounds at
airplane makes in the air don't let them
scare you
such a large aircraft is bound to creak
and the rattles are things moving and
sliding around
remember that everyone's carry-on bags
are in the storage bins above you if
you're using the food tray things may
slide or bounce around on it think of
the normal sound you hear in your car
and multiply that by a hundred an
airplane is much bigger and faster than
your car so the sounds it makes will be
bigger too turbulence it may feel and
sound kind of scary but turbulence is
pretty normal turbulence is airplane
language for irregular Airways if it's
extra windy outside or if the weather
isn't perfect the plane you feel extra
bumpy think of a car on a rough rocky
road it may sound loud inside the cabin
and things may rattle around a little
more than usual but turbulence is
something that the pilot is completely
prepared for and knows how to navigate
through it's a pretty normal and
expected part of the flight if there's a
lot of turbulence the pilot may send a
ding over the intercom system warning
flight attendants that it might get a
little bumping you hear all call over
the intercom don't worry this doesn't
mean that the plane is in danger this is
just a flight attendant basically
calling a meeting with the other members
of the crew the crew of the airplane
will of course be checking in with each
other during the flight this is to make
sure that certain duties have been done
safety checks have been made the toilet
is clogged just kidding but you get it
flight attendants don't necessarily need
to use the intercom system but if they
know that other members are in a
different part of the plane it's just
easier to do an all-call beeps
indicating that you can take your seat
belt off when the plane has reached a
certain cruising altitude and you've
been flying for a while it's safe to
take your seat belt off and move around
the pilot will let you know this by
sending a beep over the intercom and
turning the seatbelt sign off these lit
up signs are usually located right above
your seat on the ceiling this may
happened a couple of times if you're on
a long flight so the first time the
pilot may make an intercom announcement
this is your chance to use the bathroom
and stretch your legs okay let's get
back to the count out this time for your
landing - dings 10 minutes before you
land just like there were two dings when
you reached a certain altitude after
takeoff the two dings will ring again
when you've reached that same level on
your descent again this is just letting
the flight attendants know that the
flight is almost over and to prepare for
landing you're almost back on the ground
a high pitch whirring sound five minutes
before landing this is the hydraulic
system pulling in the slats and flap
which are structures on the plane's wing
that changes the wing shape and helps
keep the plane in the air this is called
a lift when these structures are pushed
out the plane can keep its lift while it
slows down to a safe and comfortable
speed and prepare for landing
by this point you should feel the plane
getting lower and lower
a bump and deep thunk two minutes before
landing
this means the airplanes landing gear is
coming out which includes the wheels and
anything else in the plane's
undercarriage that helps it land
mechanical gear in the wings may still
be adjusting - you may hear some
whistling as well since such a big
airport structure is trying to slow down
from a pretty high speed while also
dealing with changes in the air waves
these noises are completely normal
during a landing and you might be glad
to hear them the landing the wheels will
touch down on the runway and you may
feel and hear some bumps or thuds
everything is fine I mean that plane is
pretty heavy right bumps during a
landing are totally normal even expected
you'll cruise along the runway for a
while so that you can slow down then
you'll slowly pull up to your terminal
you did it now it's time to get your
land legs back just remember to try and
trust your pilot and other crew members
if it's any comfort the process for
getting a pilot's license has pretty
high standards plus rigorous coursework
and flight time so your pilot knows what
also remember that you're a passenger in
a huge engineering marvel you're going
to hear noises think of an airplane as a
much larger and complex version of your
car also try to enjoy your flight you'll
see magnificent views and flying can be
pretty relaxing once you're in the air
hey if you learn something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
videos you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right remember stay on the
bright side of life